CDF graduation blogpost (#3591)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2020/08/2020-08-04-cdf-graduation.adoc

opengraph:
  image: TODO
---

On behalf of the Jenkins Governance Board,
we are happy to announce that the Jenkins project has achieved the graduated status in
the link:https://cd.foundation/[Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF)].
This status is official effective Aug 03, 2020.

In this article, we will discuss what the CDF membership and graduation mean to the Jenkins community and what are the future steps for the project.
If you are interested to know more,
see the link:TODO[announcement on the CDF website]!

== How does CDF membership help us?

About 18 months ago, Jenkins link:/blog/2019/03/12/cdf-launch/[became one of the CDF founding projects],along with Jenkins X, Spinnaker and Tekton.
A new foundation was formed to provide a vendor-neutral home for open source projects used for Continuous Delivery and Continuous Integration.
Special interest groups were started to foster collaboration between projects and end user companies,
most notably 
link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability[Interoperability],
link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-mlops[MLOps] and
link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-security[Security] SIGs.

> Also, a link:https://cd.foundation/ambassador-program-overview-application/[Community Ambassador] role was created to organize local meetups and to provide public-facing community representatives.

Author: ```suggestion
Also, a link:https://cd.foundation/ambassador-program-overview-application/[Community Ambassador] role was created to organize local meetups and to provide public-facing community representatives.
Many former Jenkins Ambassadors and other contributors became CDF Ambassadors.
```

Reviewer: I like that phrasing and the reminder that I need to apply to become a CDF Ambassador.

Thanks to this membership we addressed key link:/projects/infrastructure/[project infrastructure] needs.
Starting from Jan 2020, CDF covers a significant part of the infrastructure costs
including our services and CI/CD instances running on Microsoft Azure.
CDF provided us with legal assistance required to get code signing keys for the Jenkins project.
Thanks to that, we were able to switch to a new link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/release[Jenkins Release Infrastructure].
The foundation sponsors the Zoom account we use for link:/events/online-meetup/[Jenkins Online Meetups] and community meetings.
In the future we consider reducing maintenance overheads by switching some of our self-hosted services to equivalents provided by the Linux Foundation to CDF members.

Another important CDF membership benefit is community outreach and marketing. 
CDF helped us to establish connections with other CI/CD projects and end user companies.
Through CDF we have got access to the link:https://jenkins.devstats.cd.foundation/[DevStats service] service which provides statistics about the community contributions and helps us to track trends and discover areas for improvement.

> On the marketing side, foundation organizes webinars, podcasts and newsletters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the marketing side, the foundation organizes webinars, podcasts and newsletters.
```

Jenkins is regularly represented there.
CDF also runs the meetup.com professional account which is used by local Jenkins communities for
link:/projects/jam/[CI/CD and Jenkins Area Meetups].
Last but not least, the Jenkins community is also represented at virtual conferences where CDF has a booth.
All of that helps to grow Jenkins visibility and to highlight new features and initiatives in the project.

== Why did we graduate?

The Jenkins project has a long history of open governance which is a key part of today's project success.
Starting from **2011**, the project has introduced link:/project/governance-meeting/[the governance meeting] which are open to anyone.
Most of the discussions and decision making happen publicly in the link:/mailing-lists/[mailing lists].
**In 2015** we introduced teams, sub-projects and officer roles.
**In 2017** we introduced the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep[Jenkins Enhancement Proposal] process which helped us to make the key architecture and governance decisions more open and transparent to the community and the Jenkins users.

> **In 2018** we started introducing link:/sigs[special interest groups] which focused on the community areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**In 2018** we introduced link:/sigs[special interest groups] that focus on community needs.
```

**In 2019** we have link:/blog/2019/12/16/board-election-results/[expanded the Jenkins governance board]
so that it got more bandwidth to facilitate initiatives in the project.

Since the Jenkins project inception 15 years ago, it has been steadily growing.
Now it has millions of users and thousands of contributors.
In 2019 it has seen **5,433 contributors** from 111 countries and 272 companies,
67 core and 2,654 plugin releases,
45,484 commits, 7,000+ pull requests.
In 2020 Q2 the project has seen **21% growth** in pull requests numbers compared to 2019 Q2, bots excluded.

One may say that the Jenkins project already has everything needed to succeed.
It is a result of continuous work by many community members,
and this work will never end as long as the project remains active.
Like in any other industry, the CI/CD ecosystem changes every day and sets new expectations from the automation tools in this domain.
Same as the tools, the open source communities need to evolve so that they can address expectations, and onboard more users and contributors.
CDF graduation process helped us to discover opportunities for improvement,
and to address them.

> We reviewed the project processes and to compare them with the Graduated Project criteria defined in the link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/PROJECT_LIFECYCLE.md[CDF project lifecycle].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We reviewed the project processes and compared them with the Graduated Project criteria defined in the link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/PROJECT_LIFECYCLE.md[CDF project lifecycle].
```

> Based on this review, we have made changes in our processes and documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Based on this review, we made changes in our processes and documentation.
```

It should improve experience of Jenkins users,
and help to make the Jenkins community more welcoming to existing and newcomer contributors.

== What changed for the project?

Below you can find a few key changes we have applied during the graduation process:

Public roadmap::

We introduced a new link:/project/roadmap/[public roadmap] for the Jenkins project.
This roadmap aggregates key initiatives in all community areas: features, infrastructure, documentation, community, etc.
It makes the project more transparent to all Jenkins users and adopters,

> and at the same time helps potential contributors to find out the hot areas and opportunities for contribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and at the same time helps potential contributors find the hot areas and opportunities for contribution.
```

The roadmap is driven by the Jenkins community and it has a fully public process documented in jep:14[].

More details about the public roadmap are coming next week, stay tuned for a separate blogpost.
On July 10th we had an online contributor meetup about it,
and you can find more information about the roadmap in its materials
(link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_T2nZhP1WS2Fw0OLVAJV14Ke6nEsqBjLcdAHiygCmNs/edit?usp=sharing[slides], link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ldWBY5BdQ5I[video recording]).

User Documentation::

* Jenkins Weekly Release line is now documented on our website (link:/download/weekly/[here]).
  We have also reworked the downloads page and added guidelines explaining how to verify downloads.
* A new link:/project/adopters[list of Jenkins adopters] was introduced on jenkins.io.

>   This list highlights Jenkins users and refers their case studies and success stories,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This list highlights Jenkins users and references their case studies and success stories,
```

  including ones submitted through the link:/blog/2020/04/30/jenkins-is-the-way/[Jenkins Is The Way] portal.

>   Please do not hesitate to add your companies there!

Reviewer: May be more engaging by assuming that most readers only work for one company?
```suggestion
  Please do not hesitate to add your company there!
```

Community::

* We passed the link:https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/[Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII)] certification.

>   This certification helped us to verify compliance with open source best practices,

Reviewer: Since we're continuing to review the certification, I think it is OK to use the present tense rather than past tense.  That is then consistent with the rest of the paragraph.
```suggestion
  This certification helps us to verify compliance with open source best practices,
```

  and to make adjustments in the project (see the bullets below).
  It also provides Jenkins users and adopters with a public summary about compliance with each best practice.

>   See the Jenkins core's page link:https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/3538[here].

Reviewer: Link on the longer text so it is easier to read?
```suggestion
  Details are on the link:https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/3538[Jenkins core page].
```

* link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/conduct/[Jenkins Code of Conduct was updated]
  to the new version of Contributor Covenant.
  In particular, it sets best practices of behavior in the community, and expands definitions of unacceptable behavior.
* The default link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[Jenkins contributing template] was updated to cover more common cases for plugin contributors.

>   This page contributes to the link:/participate[Participate and Contribute] guidelines hosted on our website,

Reviewer: Slightly different word so that "contribute" is not used twice in the same sentence?
```suggestion
  This page extends the link:/participate[Participate and Contribute] guidelines hosted on our website,
```

Author: ```suggestion
  This page provides links to the link:/participate[Participate and Contribute] guidelines hosted on our website,
```

  and helps potential contributors to easily access the documentation.
* The Jenkins Core link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/docs/MAINTAINERS.adoc[maintainer guide] was updated to include maintenance and issues triage guidelines.

>   It should help us to deliver quality releases and to timely triage and address issues reported by the Jenkins users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  It should help us to deliver quality releases and to timely triage and address issues reported by Jenkins users.
```

== What's next?

It an honor to be the first project to reach the graduated stage in the Continuous Delivery Foundation.
But it is also a great responsibility for the project.
As a project, we plan to continue participating in the CDF activities and to work with other projects and end users to maintain the Jenkins' leader role in the CI/CD space.

We encourage everyone to join the project and link:/participate/[participate] in evolving the Jenkins project and driving its roadmap.
It does not necessarily mean committing code or documentation patches, 
user feedback is also very important to the project.
If you are interested to contribute or to share your feedback,

> please contacts us in the Jenkins community channels (link:/mailing-lists[mailing lists], link:/chat[chats])!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
please contact us in the Jenkins community channels (link:/mailing-lists[mailing lists], link:/chat[chats])!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins graduates in the Continuous Delivery Foundation"
tags:
- announcement
- cdf
- general
- community
author: oleg_nenashev
description: >
  The Jenkins project has graduated in the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF).
  In this article, we discuss what it means to the Jenkins community and what are the future steps for the project.
opengraph:
  image: TODO
---

On behalf of the Jenkins Governance Board,
we are happy to announce that the Jenkins project has achieved the graduated status in
the link:https://cd.foundation/[Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF)].
This status is official effective Aug 03, 2020.

In this article, we will discuss what the CDF membership and graduation mean to the Jenkins community and what are the future steps for the project.
If you are interested to know more,
see the link:TODO[announcement on the CDF website]!

== How does CDF membership help us?

> About 18 months ago, Jenkins link:/blog/2019/03/12/cdf-launch/[became one of the CDF founding projects],along with Jenkins X, Spinnaker and Tekton.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
About 18 months ago, Jenkins link:/blog/2019/03/12/cdf-launch/[became one of the CDF founding projects], along with Jenkins X, Spinnaker and Tekton.
```

The foundation sponsors the Zoom account we use for link:/events/online-meetup/[Jenkins Online Meetups] and community meetings.
In the future we consider reducing maintenance overheads by switching some of our self-hosted services to equivalents provided by the Linux Foundation to CDF members.

Another important CDF membership benefit is community outreach and marketing. 
CDF helped us to establish connections with other CI/CD projects and end user companies.
Through CDF we have access to the link:https://jenkins.devstats.cd.foundation/[DevStats service].  It provides community contribution statistics and helps us track trends and discover areas for improvement.
On the marketing side, the foundation organizes webinars, podcasts and newsletters.
Jenkins is regularly represented there.
CDF also runs the meetup.com professional account which is used by local Jenkins communities for
link:/projects/jam/[CI/CD and Jenkins Area Meetups].
Last but not least, the Jenkins community is also represented at virtual conferences where CDF has a booth.
All of that helps to grow Jenkins visibility and to highlight new features and initiatives in the project.

> == Why did we graduate?

Author: ```suggestion
== Why do we graduate?
```

Not sure, would appreciate your feedback @MarkEWaite

Reviewer: > Not sure, would appreciate your feedback @MarkEWaite

```
+ == Why are we graduating?
```

Idea is to keep the reader in the present tense for the question, then answer the question in the paragraph.  If not present tense, then my personal preference is "Why did we graduate?"

Now it has millions of users and thousands of contributors.
In 2019 it has seen **5,433 contributors** from 111 countries and 272 companies,
67 core and 2,654 plugin releases,
45,484 commits, 7,000+ pull requests.
In 2020 Q2 the project has seen **21% growth** in pull requests numbers compared to 2019 Q2, bots excluded.

One may say that the Jenkins project already has everything needed to succeed.
It is a result of continuous work by many community members,
and this work will never end as long as the project remains active.
Like in any other industry, the CI/CD ecosystem changes every day and sets new expectations from the automation tools in this domain.
Same as the tools, the open source communities need to evolve so that they can address expectations, and onboard more users and contributors.
CDF graduation process helped us to discover opportunities for improvement,
and to address them.
We reviewed the project processes and compared them with the Graduated Project criteria defined in the link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/PROJECT_LIFECYCLE.md[CDF project lifecycle].
Based on this review, we made changes in our processes and documentation.

> It should improve experience of Jenkins users,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It should improve the experience of Jenkins users,
```

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins graduates in the Continuous Delivery Foundation"
tags:
- announcement
- cdf
- general
- community
author: oleg_nenashev
description: >
  The Jenkins project has graduated in the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF).
  In this article, we discuss what it means to the Jenkins community and what are the future steps for the project.
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2020/08-cdf-graduation/opengraph.png
---

We are happy to announce that the Jenkins project has achieved the **graduated status** in
the link:https://cd.foundation/[Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF)].

> This status is official effective Aug 03, 2020.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This status is officially effective Aug 03, 2020.
```

> Jenkins is the first project to graduate in the CD Foundation.

Reviewer 3: Some places are using "CD Foundation" and others are using "CDF", I would recommend using one or the other.

Author: I mostly operated based on the line breaks and line alignment. Can align everything to the CD Foundation to follow the official announcamants

Author: I have patched a few instances, but even the CDF materials use both ways. If you are fine with that, I would leave it as is

Thanks to all contributors who made our graduation possible!

In this article, we will discuss what the CD Foundation membership and graduation mean to the Jenkins community.
We will also talk about what changed in Jenkins as a part of the graduation,
and what are the future steps for the project.

NOTE: To know more about the Jenkins graduation,
see also the link:https://cd.foundation/announcement/2020/08/04/cd-foundation-announces-jenkins-graduation/[announcement on the CDF website].

== How does CDF membership help us?

About 18 months ago, Jenkins link:/blog/2019/03/12/cdf-launch/[became one of the CDF founding projects], along with Jenkins X, Spinnaker and Tekton.
A new foundation was formed to provide a vendor-neutral home for open source projects used for Continuous Delivery and Continuous Integration.
Special interest groups were started to foster collaboration between projects and end user companies,

> most notably 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
most notably: 
```

link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-interoperability[Interoperability],
link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-mlops[MLOps] and
link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/sig-security[Security] SIGs.
Also, a link:https://cd.foundation/ambassador-program-overview-application/[Community Ambassador] role was created to organize local meetups and to provide public-facing community representatives.
Many former Jenkins Ambassadors and other contributors are now CDF Ambassadors, and they promote Jenkins and other CDF projects there.

Thanks to this membership we addressed key link:/projects/infrastructure/[project infrastructure] needs.
Starting from Jan 2020, CDF covers a significant part of the infrastructure costs
including our services and CI/CD instances running on Microsoft Azure.
CDF provided us with legal assistance required to get code signing keys for the Jenkins project.

> Thanks to that, we were able to switch to a new link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/release[Jenkins Release Infrastructure].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This allowed the project to switch to a new, automated, link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/release[Jenkins Release Infrastructure].
```

Author: The previous one is "fully automated" as well. i would rather reference Cloud, Infra as Code, etc. But not sure how to put it shortly

Author: ```suggestion
This allowed the project to switch to a new, modern and fully automated, link:https://github.com/jenkins-infra/release[Jenkins Release Infrastructure].
```

The foundation sponsors the Zoom account we use for link:/events/online-meetup/[Jenkins Online Meetups] and community meetings.

> In the future we consider reducing maintenance overheads by switching some of our self-hosted services to equivalents provided by the Linux Foundation to CDF members.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the future we will continue to review ways of reducing maintenance overhead by switching some of our self-hosted services to equivalents provided by the Linux Foundation to CDF members.
```

**In 2018** we introduced link:/sigs[special interest groups] that focus on community needs.
**In 2019** we have link:/blog/2019/12/16/board-election-results/[expanded the Jenkins governance board]
so that it got more bandwidth to facilitate initiatives in the project.

Since the Jenkins project inception 15 years ago, it has been steadily growing.
Now it has millions of users and thousands of contributors.
In 2019 it has seen **5,433 contributors** from 111 countries and 272 companies,
67 core and 2,654 plugin releases,
45,484 commits, 7,000+ pull requests.
In 2020 Q2 the project has seen **21% growth** in pull requests numbers compared to 2019 Q2, bots excluded.

One may say that the Jenkins project already has everything needed to succeed.
It is a result of continuous work by many community members,
and this work will never end as long as the project remains active.
Like in any other industry, the CI/CD ecosystem changes every day and sets new expectations from the automation tools in this domain.

> Same as the tools, the open source communities need to evolve so that they can address expectations, and onboard more users and contributors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Just as the tools evolve, open source communities need to evolve so that they can address expectations, and onboard more users and contributors.
```

> CDF graduation process helped us to discover opportunities for improvement,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CDF graduation process helped us to discover opportunities for improvement,
```

> and to address them.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and address them.
```

We reviewed the project processes and compared them with the Graduated Project criteria defined in the link:https://github.com/cdfoundation/toc/blob/master/PROJECT_LIFECYCLE.md[CDF project lifecycle].
Based on this review, we made changes in our processes and documentation.
It should improve the experience of Jenkins users,
and help to make the Jenkins community more welcoming to existing and newcomer contributors.

== What changed for the project?

Below you can find a few key changes we have applied during the graduation process:

Public roadmap::

We introduced a new link:/project/roadmap/[public roadmap] for the Jenkins project.
This roadmap aggregates key initiatives in all community areas: features, infrastructure, documentation, community, etc.
It makes the project more transparent to all Jenkins users and adopters,
and at the same time helps potential contributors find the hot areas and opportunities for contribution.
The roadmap is driven by the Jenkins community and it has a fully public process documented in jep:14[].

More details about the public roadmap are coming next week, stay tuned for a separate blogpost.

> On July 10th we had an online contributor meetup about it,
> and you can find more information about the roadmap in its materials

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On July 10th we had an online contributor meetup about the roadmap 
and you can find more information in its materials
```

(link:https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_T2nZhP1WS2Fw0OLVAJV14Ke6nEsqBjLcdAHiygCmNs/edit?usp=sharing[slides], link:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ldWBY5BdQ5I[video recording]).

User Documentation::

* Jenkins Weekly Release line is now documented on our website (link:/download/weekly/[here]).
  We have also reworked the downloads page and added guidelines explaining how to verify downloads.
* A new link:/project/adopters[list of Jenkins adopters] was introduced on jenkins.io.
  This list highlights Jenkins users and references their case studies and success stories,
  including ones submitted through the link:/blog/2020/04/30/jenkins-is-the-way/[Jenkins Is The Way] portal.
  Please do not hesitate to add your company there!

Community::

* We passed the link:https://www.coreinfrastructure.org/[Core Infrastructure Initiative (CII)] certification.

>   This certification helps us to verify compliance with open source best practices,
>   and to make adjustments in the project (see the bullets below).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  This certification helps us to verify compliance with open source best practices
  and to make adjustments in the project (see the bullets below).
```

  It also provides Jenkins users and adopters with a public summary about compliance with each best practice.
  Details are on the link:https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/en/projects/3538[Jenkins core page].
* link:https://www.jenkins.io/project/conduct/[Jenkins Code of Conduct was updated]
  to the new version of Contributor Covenant.
  In particular, it sets best practices of behavior in the community, and expands definitions of unacceptable behavior.
* The default link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md[Jenkins contributing template] was updated to cover more common cases for plugin contributors.
  This page provides links to the link:/participate[Participate and Contribute] guidelines hosted on our website,
  and helps potential contributors to easily access the documentation.
* The Jenkins Core link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/blob/master/docs/MAINTAINERS.adoc[maintainer guide] was updated to include maintenance and issues triage guidelines.
  It should help us to deliver quality releases and to timely triage and address issues reported by Jenkins users.

== What's next?

> It an honor to be the first project to reach the graduated stage in the Continuous Delivery Foundation.
> But it is also a great responsibility for the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It an honor to be the first project to reach the graduated stage in the Continuous Delivery Foundation, 
but it is also a great responsibility for the project.
```

As a project, we plan to continue participating in the CDF activities and to work with other projects and end users to maintain the Jenkins' leader role in the CI/CD space.

We encourage everyone to join the project and link:/participate/[participate] in evolving the Jenkins project and driving its roadmap.

> It does not necessarily mean committing code or documentation patches, 
> user feedback is also very important to the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It does not necessarily mean committing code or documentation patches; 
user feedback is also very important to the project.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Jenkins graduates in the Continuous Delivery Foundation"
tags:
- announcement
- cdf
- general
- community
author: oleg_nenashev
description: >
  The Jenkins project has graduated in the Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF).
  In this article, we discuss what it means to the Jenkins community and what are the future steps for the project.
opengraph:
  image: /images/post-images/2020/08-cdf-graduation/opengraph.png
---

On behalf of the Jenkins Governance Board,
we are happy to announce that the Jenkins project has achieved the **graduated status** in
the link:https://cd.foundation/[Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF)].
This status is official effective Aug 03, 2020.
Jenkins is the first project to graduate in the CD Foundation.
Thanks to all contributors who made our graduation possible!

In this article, we will discuss what the CD Foundation membership and graduation mean to the Jenkins community.
We will also talk about what changed in Jenkins as a part of the graduation,
and what are the future steps for the project.

NOTE: To know more about the Jenkins graduation,

> see also the link:TODO[announcement on the CDF website].

Author: ```suggestion
see also the link:https://cd.foundation/announcement/2020/08/04/cd-foundation-announces-jenkins-graduation/[announcement on the CDF website].
```

The foundation sponsors the Zoom account we use for link:/events/online-meetup/[Jenkins Online Meetups] and community meetings.
In the future we consider reducing maintenance overheads by switching some of our self-hosted services to equivalents provided by the Linux Foundation to CDF members.

Another important CDF membership benefit is community outreach and marketing. 
CDF helped us to establish connections with other CI/CD projects and end user companies.
Through CDF we have access to the link:https://jenkins.devstats.cd.foundation/[DevStats service].  It provides community contribution statistics and helps us track trends and discover areas for improvement.
On the marketing side, the foundation organizes webinars, podcasts and newsletters.
Jenkins is regularly represented there.
CDF also runs the meetup.com professional account which is used by local Jenkins communities for
link:/projects/jam/[CI/CD and Jenkins Area Meetups].
Last but not least, the Jenkins community is also represented at virtual conferences where CDF has a booth.
All of that helps to grow Jenkins visibility and to highlight new features and initiatives in the project.

> == Why do we graduate?

Author: ```suggestion
== Why did we graduate?
```

It does not necessarily mean committing code or documentation patches, 
user feedback is also very important to the project.
If you are interested to contribute or to share your feedback,
please contact us in the Jenkins community channels (link:/mailing-lists[mailing lists], link:/chat[chats])!

== Acknowledgements

CDF graduation work was a major effort in the Jenkins community.
Congratulations and thanks to the dozens of contributors who made our graduation possible.
I would like to thank
link:https://github.com/slide[Alex Earl],
link:https://github.com/alyssat[Alyssa Tong],
link:https://github.com/dlorenc[Dan Lorenc],
link:https://github.com/daniel-beck[Daniel Beck],
link:https://github.com/jeffret-b[Jeff Thompson],
link:https://github.com/markyjackson-taulia[Marky Jackson],
link:https://github.com/markewaite[Mark Waite],
link:https://github.com/olblak[Olivier Vernin],
link:https://github.com/timja[Tim Jacomb],
link:https://github.com/tracymiranda[Tracy Miranda],
link:https://github.com/uhafner[Ullrich Hafner],
link:https://github.com/wadeck[Wadeck Follonier],
and all other contributors who helped with reviews and provided their feedback!

> Also thanks to the continuous Delivery Foundation marketing team (Jacqueline Salinas, Jesse Casman and Roxanne Joncas) for their work on promoting the Jenkins project and, specifically, its graduation.

Author: ```suggestion
Also thanks to the Continuous Delivery Foundation marketing team (Jacqueline Salinas, Jesse Casman and Roxanne Joncas) for their work on promoting the Jenkins project and, specifically, its graduation.
```

== About the Continuous Delivery Foundation

image::/images/sponsors/cdf.png[alt="CDF Logo", float=right, width="164px"]

The link:https://cd.foundation[Continuous Delivery Foundation (CDF)] serves as the vendor-neutral home of many of the fastest-growing projects for continuous delivery, including Jenkins, Jenkins X, Tekton, and Spinnaker,
as well as fosters collaboration between the industry’s top developers, end users and vendors to further continuous delivery best practices.
The CDF is part of the Linux Foundation, a nonprofit organization.
For more information about the CDF, please visit link:https://cd.foundation[its website].

== More information

To know more about the Jenkins graduation in the Continuous Delivery Foundation,

> see the link:TODO[announcement on the CDF website].

Author: ```suggestion
see the link:https://cd.foundation/announcement/2020/08/04/cd-foundation-announces-jenkins-graduation/[announcement on the CDF website].
```
